In module one, we talked about principles,
which underly good visualizations,
we pulled from work by Cairo and Tufty.
In Module 2, we opened up
the Matplotlib Python Library.
Starting with the architecture and
working our way through some
the most common kinds of plots.
Scatter plots, line graphs and bar charts.
In this module,
we're going to do a bit deeper and
talk about multiple plots with the same
figure, interaction, animation and
a few more kinds of plots which you might
find useful in your data science journey.
Now, if you've been
doing these assignments,
you've undoubtedly been visiting
our course discussion forms,
going to stack overflow, and reading
the map plot live API documentation.
I want to point you to
the Matplotlib mailing list as well
is another great resource.
There would be resource posted
below on how to browse that list.
It's pretty common with open source
projects to have two mailing lists.
One for developers and
the other for users.
The users place is where most of
the question answering happens.
But I encourage to you look at
the developer archives, too.
To get an idea as to what these kind of
projects look like behind the scenes.
Let's start this module with
a deeper look at subplots.
Thus far we have been using a signal axis
object to plot a single graph or figure.
Sometimes it is useful to show
two complex plot side by side for
the viewer to compare.
Matplotlib handles this
with a single figure.
Let's first set our rendering
backend to the NPA backend,
then import our pyplot module and
NumPy, as we'll need then both.
If we look at the subplot documentation,
we see that the first argument
is the number of rows,
the second the number of columns,
and the third is the plot number.
In matplotlib, a conceptual grid
is overlayed on the figure.
And a subplot command allows you to create
axis to different portions of this grid.
For instance, if we want to to
create two plots side by side,
we would call subplot with
the parameters 1, 2, and 1.
This would allow us to use 1 row,
with 2 columns, and
set the first axis to be the current axis.
This.
Let's do this now.
We'll create a new figure and then a new
subplot with one row and two columns.
And we'll ask for the left hand side axis.
The greatest number alternatively
from left to right and top to bottom.
So subsequent calls to plot would
create the left hand side plot.
Okay, great we've got a skinny
plot on the left hand side.
We can then call subplot again with the
last parameter as a two to plot new data
to a plot on the right hand side.
And that's nice.
Now we have two plots,
each with their own axis objects.
Now the norm with matplotlib
is that you store the axis
object that you get back from the subplot.
But you can call subplot again.
At any time with the parameters
that interest you
in order to get back a given axis.
Here, let's put exponential
on the linear graph 2
This demonstrates a common problem,
it looked like linear had roughly the same
area under the line on the chart until we
asked matplotlib to put
them into one graph.
Then the y axis was refreshed.
There would be a big problem with
misleading the reader if we didn't find
a way to lock axis between two plots.
When you create a new subplot you
are able to share the x, y, or
both axis using the share x and
share y parameters.
Here's how we could clean this up,
we create a new figure.
Then created a subplot on
the left-hand side store it in AX1.
After plotting that data we create
the axis on the right-hand side,
and we indicate explicitly
we want to share the y-axis.
Now we don't have to store the subplot
to a variable like we did with AX1.
Remember that when you use the scripting
interface, high plot is going to get
the current axis object with GCA or
get current axis underneath.
So a call to pipeplot.plot
will transparently work with
the last axis objects that we're using.
There we go.
Two plots side by side and
we've locked the y axis.
Now, those of you who have been playing
close attention will note that I used
the add subplot function
in the last module.
But I didn't pass in three parameters,
just one.
The maplotlib developers allow you to
specify the row, columns, and number
of the plot that you want with either
three parameters or a single parameter.
Where the hundreds values the first
argument, the tens the second argument,
and the ones the third argument.
So we will call subplot with three
parameters, one, two, and one.
And the axis that return
should be equal to 1,
which is created with the 1 parameter,
121.
I'm frankly not a big fan
of this second syntax.
It feels pretty hacky and it really
only saves typing two commas and yet
limits us to single digit radius.
Now computer science folks might
feel a little twitch inside
like something's wrong with this notation.
And I'll say that it certainly bugged
me the first few times I saw it.
An important fact to remember is that
the plot location in the matrix of items
is index starting at one and
not at zero, as would be the convention
if you were using something like NumPy.
So if you're iterating through a matrix or
list, create subplots.
Remember to start at position plus one.
Now, there's a nice function
called subplots, note the plural,
which allows you to get many axis objects
at once, and I think this is great.
So, if we wanted to get a three by
three grid with all of the axis x and
y ranges locked, we can do so like this.
The syntax looks a little goofy
maybe since we're unpacking
the results of the subplots
function directly.
Wherein it's an effective way to build
a grid where everything shares an axis.
And of course, you could just
return the tuple of plots and
iterate it over if you wanted to.
The results however look really nice.
Note that this method turns off the y and
x labels except for
those plots which are on the left hand
side or the bottom of the figure.
If you want to turn the labels back on,
you need to iterate through the axis
objects and do it yourself.
You could do this directly through
the axis objects you have or
iterate through all the axis objects
in the figure and change the x and
y tick labels to be visible.
Unfortunately, on the notebook
backend on my installation,
this doesn't redraw the figure.
But you can force the figure to redraw
by calling the canvas draw function.
Remember you can get the current figure
at any time using pyplots gcf or
get current figure or function.
Okay, so those are the basics
of subplots and matplotlib.
You can see that you can leverage
everything you learned to the last
module with this new knowledge to create
figures which have rich subplots.
In the next module, I want to exploit
this while introducing you to pretty
fundamental data science chart,
the histogram.